So we have the ability to open one and
trigger a show open dialog, right?
Show open dialog has
a sibling conveniently titled
show save dialog, right?
And show save dialog does somewhat
the same thing except the opposite and
should be able to give you
the ability to export a file.
We're going to worry about the exporting
the inner HTML of that rendered
view because we're just exporting.
I don't care about knowing
what the current file is and
saving over the current file versus
prompting for a file if we don't have one.
There's a little bit of nuance and
intricacies with just saving
a file that I will spare you.
If you want to try that one, go for it.
But we'll try exporting the HTML,
all right,
spend a little bit time
then we'll do together.
>> Anon has a quick question
from the live coding.
Why do we have to use the IPC renderer
on file opened in the preload script?
Shouldn't preload script only contain what
it has to expose to the renderer process?
Why are we even using an IPC
renderer in preload script?
>> So the question is, why are we using
the IPC renderer in the preload script?
I mean, part of that is it's
the only place we can use it, right?
IPC render isn't available in
the browser context at all, right?
Unless we pass something in and so
the only place we would get any of these
electron modules is in the preload script.
So it's our only kind of opportunity.
Now we can argue that instead
of modifying the DOM directly,
I should be labeled to maybe register
a callback or something along those lines.
And I can do something like OnFileOpened
or onFileOpen I like that better.
And this is a very okay pattern as
well and I could say something like,
allow the renderer process
to just say OnFileOpen and
then listen to that message and
pass the callback through.
That will work as well.
And then I don't modify the DOM in here,
right?
And I do it in the renderer
process like that would work too.
And arguably,
that's possibly better, right?
I don't know at this
point in a simple app,
I don't know how much it goes either way,
but we can go with that.
Let's, let's actually just do it.
So let's say we'll move this code through.
And now in the renderer process,
Let's go and
we'll say, I gotta add that to the type,
so we'll say, OnFileOpen.
Where are yeah, it will take a callback
that takes the string of the file content.
And eventually it's gonna
take the file paths.
Let's just be honest with ourselves.
Or could take that since that is
the thing that goes to the channel.
So now it takes a callback.
And we can go into the render and
we can say now instead
OnFileOpen.
And that's where I could
say what I had before.
This should do the trick as well.
What did I call it?
OnFileOpen to save that.
I just think That looks off.
I think it'll actually compile though,
we'll take a look at that a second.
It seems like it's like running
off an old type file from the nine
different times I've had this open.
So I'm gonna have to quit VS code and
start it again.
But this should do the trick where instead
of, to summarize what I just did here is
before we were listening to
the message and modifying the DOM and
there were questions of why should
the [INAUDIBLE] touch the DOM at all?
And that's fair.
So now we're actually saying hey,
we have this OnFileOpen where
you can send us a call back of
what you would like to do and
then we will then register
that here as well.
So let's go ahead and
make sure that works and
then we'll solve the other pieces well.
Now we can open it,
go in here as well, same basic idea.
So we can either do it directly in there,
we can have the ability
to register callbacks.
We'll do something like this
later in the workshop as well.
Both of those are totally fine.
Arguably this gives you a little bit
more granularity to have other yeah,
especially in a larger app.
Then might have components that
are mounted and unmounted and
stuff along those lines.
You might find yourself
doing something like this.
In fact, you could theoretically,
if you're using React,
you could write a React hook around this,
right?
Which is just all of a sudden registers,
the things that it cares about, and
handles stuff along those lines.
All those abstractions
make total sense as well.
So I've got that and
now I don't care about any of the elements
in the DOM as well, so that's kinda cool.
On the export piece, let's go and
solve for that as well.
I'm gonna start in the type just simply so
I don't have to go back.
And I think this is gonna start with,
showExportHtmlDialog,
it seens like good enough name.
And so we've got that there and
then in our preload we can
just register that showExportHtmlDialog
which will then send a message over.
Now, I could just show it and
then I could ask for the HTML again.
But I'm probably sure if I'm going
to show the ExportHtmlDialog,
what's going to happen next
after they pick a place?
Probably going to save the HTML, right?
So I'm going to choose to kind of send.
So we're going to say that this
actually take some HTML as a string and
call it content and
call it whatever you want.
I will send that through as well,
make sure I said that my type.
I did not.
And there is a way to like derive
this from the context bridge which I
was gonna show you later but
I might become impatient and
show you sooner, we'll find out.
All right, so we've got that.
Now the next part is this.
We don't need this console log anymore.
We get the point.
We'll do the elements,
ExportHtmlButton, where we'll grab.
This is the rendered view.
We'll grab the HTML from
the render view and
we will send that to the show HTML dialog.
What does it say of HTML?
Elements plural.
ExportHtmlButton, cool so
we'll grab it from the DOM and
we're just gonna send it along that
message that we just set up, right?
And now we need to go catch it
in our main process, right?
So at this point, we should be.
We should have the event listener.
We should grab the HTML.
The window.api.export or
showExportHtmlDialog will and
I guess I could call
that export HTML as well.
It's up to you.
I'm changing my mind rapidly back and
forth in each direction, but
we'll keep it for now.
And we'll say, this will send
the message all along and again,
you could just choose to call
it export HTML, that's not bad.
And but let's go listen for it over on
this side, which is when we receive that
message, we'll have the event,
we'll have the HTML that we received.
I don't need the event just yet.
Now, I get to choose whether or not I need
to tell the Window that this happened,
right, in either direction.
I don't necessarily need that immediately.
And I will use this as an example to show
you the difference between invoke versus
on, but let's keep it simple and
get the core functionality working first.
And so we'll get this and
then actually I'm gonna
want the event because I need the browser
window need is a strong word.
I want to do the same thing where
it's attached to the window.
So I need to know who sent it to me.
So that becomes very similar to
what we had here, which is like,
who sent this event?
Get me the browser window so
I can attach a dialogue to it is
effectively what we're saying here.
And so now we've got,
let's give ourselves a function.
Let's put it, let's be at least
a little bit organized here.
We'll say, const show ExportHTMLDialogue,
which will take the browser window and
the HTML.
And this is again before we had
dialog dot show open dialog,
this is simply gonna be,
it's going to be the showSaveDialog.
The title you will not see on macOS.
I think you might see it if it's
not attached to the window but
I think it also depends
on the version of macOS.
I don't know if you see
it at all these days.
You will see it in Windows,
I believe, as well.
I don't care about the default
path per se, you can specify
all of those things too but
we'll have that for now in there.
And let's see what else
would we want in here,
I probably want to specify what
the default extension ought to be.
So we'll go ahead, well,
that also it's weird.
It's still filters, but it's mostly
to give it the same kind of like API,
as we had before, which is we'll say
an HTML file with extension HTML.
Could you do htm, you could.
I'm not going to because I don't want to.
So we'll have that result in there.
And then one thing we do want
to do is if it was cancelled,
they just said I don't want to do this,
stop the process.
We're done here.
And you could have different functionality
in here like if we wanted to
tell the DOM like, you cancelled it.
I don't particularly want to.
So this one, that's not true,
because we don't have multiple file paths,
because you can select multiple files, you
can't choose to save to multiple files.
So at this point we'll
just say this is actually
just a single file path
singular on the result object.
Const, talking and
coding at the same time goes super well.
And if for some reason, again, like,
I don't think that I can get this
far without getting us a file path.
But to keep TypeScript happy,
we will then, we don't have a export HTML
just yet, so we're going to get yelled at,
but we'll write it.
We'll say the file path that we'll get
from where they picked in the HTML that we
pass the whole way through.
So lastly, we just need to do that.
So we'll say exportHtml.
They'll take the file path and the string.
And this just becomes node once again,
where we say, make an async function.
And we'll just say like that,
this is gonna be a write file
doesn't return anything.
So pass that through the file path.
Write file not the one from original-fs.
Cool, so we've got this write file that
we've got to pull in from the file system
promises library.
And so we'll export the file it's
tricky like I am probably done here but
I could theoretically also decide
that I want to send something back.
As well of like, okay and
we exported a file.
It's kind of up to you, right,
if you really wanna do that.
I'm not gonna do it for now and we'll kind
of play around with it in a second and
we'll do some experiments.
So we've got the ability to show a file.
We're not doing anything with it.
Again, we need to listen for
this, so we'll go ahead and say.
This should probably, unless I've made
some terrible Boo-Boo along the way,
should receive the message,
show the ExportHTMLDialog, right?
Get the file if it exists, pass it over.
These could probably be put together,
but in following the pattern I did for
open file, which I know there's
nine ways to open a file and
I guess theoretically I think I would
always need a window for this one.
So I could combine them,
I'd rather consistent code than an extra
function ain't bothering nobody.
Cool and so
we should have famous last words.
We should have a somewhat consistent,
full loop here as well and
so now we can go in both directions,
so we'll go,
Let's save HTML, cool.
You can see we automatically
get the .HTML extension.
Everything is as we might expect.
>> And we can save it and
if all went well,
I think I saved it in important documents.
We've got banana.html.
All right, so just open from the file
system, we can write to the file system,
we can do all of those things and get
a whole bunch of that kinda in place and
have that full loop in both directions.